Well, I guess that concludes
the section on React patterns.
So we still have two sections,
but they're kind of different.
They're not patterns like we
discussed with the design patterns or
the React patterns.
They're more ways of thinking about,
how do we want to render our website,
which is here, the rendering patterns?
And then also just how
do we use the imports,
the modules that we saw before
with the module pattern?
And what are all the steps
that our code takes or
has to take before a user can actually
see it, and how can we optimize for that?
So that is going to be the next sections.
Yeah, I don't know if there should
be a break in between or not, but
[LAUGH] otherwise I can just keep on.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Okay, cool.
In the case, before we start with
performance patterns, let's just talk
about everything that we need to do before
we can actually ship it to the user.
So any clients or JavaScript in
our application has to get shipped
to the client in one way or another.
And in order to do that, we need to make
sure that it can do a couple of things.
Well, the first thing,
of course, is that it has to be
executable in a browser environment.
Because the fact that it
works in our VS Code,
doesn't necessarily mean that old browsers
support the syntax that we're using.
And we also want to make sure that
the JavaScript that we're fetching is
not too large.
We don't wanna have a huge bundle
that takes a long time to download,
use user bandwidth that eventually cost
users a lot of money and stuff like that.
So in order to do this, we use bundlers.
Now, there are many bundlers out there,
but what a bundler does is it bundles our
application into one or multiple files,
depending on your configuration.
And this makes it possible to execute or
make our code executable in other
environments as well based
on your configuration.
So essentially, what under bundler
does is it has a config file.
In this case, I'm using Webpack, but
there are many others out there,
I will also list them later on.
But it has an entry file, and it starts
to bundle your code from that entry file.
In this example, the entry point is
index.js, which imports module three,
which imports module two,
which imports module one.
So it starts to look at index.js,
and it's like, okay,
I see that you want to use module three
from the module three file, cool.
I'll make sure to bundle that in
the index.js cuz it's going to need it.
And then module three in
turn imports module two, so
it also makes sure that
it's in there as well.
So we don't have a bundle of JavaScript
code that references things that
aren't available.
So that is the main goal of a bundler,
is to make sure that the bundle that
we're creating has all the code that
is necessary to run certain script,
certain page, and stuff like that.
Now, like I said,
there are a few popular bundlers.
In these examples,
I will just use Webpack,
just because it's right now
the most commonly used one.
But maybe you've also heard of Parcel,
Rollup, which are also great bundlers.
Yeah, I'll be using Webpack
in the following examples.
Then we also have compilers.
So a compiler converts JavaScripts or
TypeScripts into a version of
JavaScript that browsers could run.
Now, of course, maybe it depends on
your configuration, but in some cases,
you know that your users are still
on Internet Explorer or something.
Now, that browser basically
supports almost nothing.
So even though we want to use
the latest features in JavaScript,
we have to make sure that we can use
a compiler that turns our code into
executable code that can
run in Internet Explorer.
Cuz obviously, we don't want to write
our code and always think about, okay,
what am I writing?
Can I use that?
Is that executable in
the browsers that my users use?
So we just want to use
the latest technologies,
we want to use the latest
JavaScript features.
So, yeah, a compiler is great for that.
An example here is using private classes.
So for example, I don't know if I
should zoom in here or not, but
we have a SecretManager.
And this is pretty new syntax here.
We can actually use private
values within classes.
Now, obviously,
a lot of browsers do not support this yet.
So if we were to fetch this file in a
browser, and the browser would be like, I
don't know what to do with this, I cannot
interpret this, I don't know what to do.
So a common or a well known transpiler
here is, for example, Babel,
which then turns this code and based
on your configuration, it's like, okay,
I can make this code executable still,
so you can write it in the latest way.
But I will transform it into a way that
your browser will also understand,
but still resulting in
the same end result.
Oop, yeah, so a compiler doesn't bundle
code, that's what the bundler does.
It just transforms it into another
version based on a certain configuration.
Yeah, I don't know, if you've used
TypeScript, that's also a compiler cuz
there's TypeScript into a certain
version of JavaScripts.
But in the following examples, I'll
probably be using Babel or TypeScript,
I'm not sure, both are great.
And then there's also the minifier,
because as you can see here,
even though the code that we wrote
was pretty small and concise,
the result of the compiler was pretty big.
Cuz we have so much code, it needs to add
all these other functionality in order to
make it executable in a browser.
Now, one minifier is, for example, Terser.
And when you're using Webpack,
you can also add Terser plugins and
stuff like that.
So the bundler automatically takes
care of also minimizing that code, or
minifying, sorry, that code,
for example, in production.
So we can make sure that the code
that we write is super readable.
We don't really have to
think too much about,
do I really want to add that function?
This might increase the bundle size for
our users.
Because the minifier will take care of
that, and will make sure that it's super,
super small.
For example, here function t,
I have no idea what that is, but
this also refers to these
functions that we saw here.
It just changes names, stuff like that.
So yeah, this makes sure that
our bundle size is very small.
Now, popular minifiers are Terser or
Uglify.
So, now in 2022, there are also many
developers working on tools that combine
all the things that we just talked about.
So, for example, SWC, which is
a Rust-based compiler, and bundler,
and minifier.
And there's also ESBuild, which is a
Ro-based compiler, bundler, and minifier.
So the only issue is that right now,
as I'm giving this workshop,
they don't support as many
features as Webpack does.
So sometimes it's still better to use
Webpack if you're using certain features
that are needed.
But it's definitely nice that there are so
many developers developing better tools
out there, because adding the bundler and
the compiler and
minifier always takes quite a lot of work.
And it's just a pain to set up when
you just wanna develop a code and
ship your project, and
you have to think about all these things.
Now, there are also certain practices that
we need to think of when we think about
performance.
Now, one of them is bundle splitting.
So what we just saw is that Webpack
creates this one big bundle from our entry
point.
It contains all the code that is
necessary in order to run that.
But of course, a larger bundle can lead
to an increased amount of loading time,
processing time, execution time.
And yeah, users on low-end devices,
especially with slower networks,
will get a bad performance,
your website will load pretty slowly.
Now, in order to avoid larger bundles, we
can also create multiple smaller bundles.
So instead of fetching everything,
this one big bundle at once,
we can just kinda split them up
into multiple smaller bundles.
Then there's also tree shaking.
So tree shaking is basically
eliminating dead code,
cuz in many cases, maybe we're importing
something, or we're creating a function.
But it's not actually used anywhere,
it's just kind of there,
but it's not referenced at all.
For example, here we have an input,
and we have the validateInput, and
then we also have the format.
But here, you see that we're only
importing the validateInput.
So this one is never used, never
referenced in our application whatsoever.
Now, normally, we could just
bundle this in that bundle, but
this would just add to the bundle size,
which is bad.
So instead, a bundler usually takes care
of automatically also eliminating that
code that we're not using,
which is called tree shaking.
This is a bit tricky to do,
so it's not always perfect.
But it definitely tries to eliminate
as much code that we don't need from
the end bundle, I guess,
which is shown here.
So yeah, it just removes that.
There is no reference here to formatInput
at all, it's only to validateInput.
So these are just some things to keep in
mind when we're talking about performance
patterns.
Any questions so far?
Yeah.
>> [LAUGH] Okay, a couple.
One about tree shaking?
Does it make a difference, I don't
know if maybe this isn't really a tree
shaking question, but to do destructured
imports for React, for example,
instead of doing import react in every
file you just import the things you need?
>> Yeah.
>> Does that help to minimize the tree
shaking, or is it like, those things
reference other things behind the scenes?
>> So, well, it kind of depends on how
the library authors structure the module.
It used to be the case that, yeah,
whenever you import it, like import react
from React would include more code, and
for example, import use state from React.
But the way it works now is that they've
restructured it, so that when you're only
using React that use state, it will make
sure to not include everything else.
But this is also part of your
configuration for your bundler.
Sometimes you can also just turn it off
and be like, just include everything.
And in some cases, you have files that,
for example, have side effects.
For example, when you just import a large
file, the bundler cannot always know like,
I don't know if you're going to use this.
So just make sure that it's not
eliminating code that you might actually
end up using, it will still include that.
So there are just many things that are
kind of not insecure, but it's kinda like,
it doesn't always know what to do.
Your bundler doesn't want to make too many
assumptions and maybe break your code.
So that's kinda why I said,
tree shaking, it is very good right now,
it's in a much better state, but
it's still not as perfect as it can be, or
as many people expect, but
we're only getting better.
Yeah, so this also really depends
on how you structure your own code.
So, it's definitely not
just developer's fault.
It's just sometimes kinda tricky to make
sure that you're also optimizing your code
to make it as tree shakable as possible.
But in a lot of cases,
this really only is kind of important for
library authors
>> And
then I did have one question
about bundle splitting as well.
So, when you're bundling, you're following
this chain of all of your imports.
When you're bundle splitting,
is it undoing that in any sense, or
is it something very, very different?
>> No, it's something different, and
we're kind of going to talk
about this later on as well.
>> Okay.
>> But with bundle splitting,
we can essentially say these parts of
the application are just
kind of standalone parts.
They don't necessarily rely on each other,
although they can,
a bundle can require another
bundle if they have to.
But it doesn't create a bundle and
then split it,
it just outputs multiple bundles from
multiple entries, if that makes sense.
So you're not just bundling your entire
application into one big bundle.
It's just kind of splitting it based on
components, for example, on components or
maybe on pages,
just parts of your application.
>> Is there any difference between
bundle splitting and code splitting, or
are those interchangeable?
>> I believe they're interchangeable.
>> Okay.
>> But I may be wrong, but
I believe they're interchangeable, yeah.
>> I have a question.
>> Sure.
>> So
when you work in a large organizations,
you have a boilerplate code that comes
with Webpack, Babel, and everything.
>> Yeah,
>> As a normal day-to-day developer,
are these things different than what
comes with the boilerplate code,
or we need to enable those features?
>> I mean, you can, if you see that you're
working with a codebase, and it doesn't
have all the performance features
enabled that maybe Webpack now provides.
I don't know if you're using maybe Webpack
4, you can maybe upgrade to Webpack 5 and
have more features.
It's definitely worth it to see
the plugins that are out there,
cuz Webpack has plugins and
presets or stuff like that, so
you can kind of customize
your bundling based on that.
But working with Webpack is difficult,
it is so tricky, especially,
like you said, in larger code bases.
So I think if you're working on a larger
code base, I would say it's definitely
worth it to see like, okay, what does
the Webpack config currently look like?
Can it add more optimizations,
like maybe minimizing, preloading?
And we'll see that later.
But I think it's more important, maybe
if you start a new project or something,
that you might consider using the latest
Webpack, or maybe using one of those
combination tools to make it even faster,
like SWC or ESBuild.
I feel like that didn't really answer
your question, but I hope it makes sense.
I know that if you're working
in a larger organization,
it's a pain to change your Webpack config.
So yeah, don't break anything,
[LAUGH] yeah.
>> One follow-up question.
>> Sure.
So in your mind,
what defines a larger bundle?
Is it in the performance uploading,
or is it the size of the bundle?
>> So it's the size of the bundle,
but that also,
in almost all cases,
affects loading time as well.
When you're actually
outputting with Webpack,
they usually have those little colors,
and they actually tell you, hey,
this bundle is when it's red, cuz it's too
big, which might affect your performance.
I cannot really show that right now.
I won't go too deep into Webpack,
by the way, cuz it's so
precise that I feel like there's another
Frontend Masters workshop on that.
But, yeah, a larger bundle size is
over a certain amount of bytes.
It's different for everyone,
I'm not entirely sure how much that is.
But I know that also Webpack tells you,
maybe consider code splitting this bundle,
cuz it's really large.
And we will talk about
the static imports and
dynamic imports with which you can
actually create those smaller bundles.
Yeah, so a larger bundle is just a large
bundle that also then in turn affects
the loading time, download time, parsing
time, execution time, stuff like that.